The first setup tests for moment of inertia by accelerating an aluminum disk with a falling mass. This can be done through the use of a coil of string wrapped around a drum. As the string unwinds it will create a torque which accelerates the disk. A pulley is used to align the string tangent with the drum as shown in Figure 1.
It is important for this experiment that the disk be level, as any deviation will cause gravity to apply a torque on the disk. To do this place a bubble level in the center of the disk and level the device using the large thumbscrews attached to the base of the stand. Then move the level across the disk checking it is level everywhere. Spinning the disk will not yield meaningful information as a centripetal force will move the bubble as you turn the device.
Label and weigh three weights, one for each of the three trials. Using the string tie a loop around the hook on the mass stand and ensure the knot is tight as it can slip during the experiment. Place the mass on the floor and unwind 2 inches more string than is required to go from the stand over the pulley and to the drum. Tie the sting to one of the two holes on the top of the drum, again make sure this is tight as the experiment places high load on these knots. It is important not to make the string to long as the momentum of the system will case it to continue to rotate after the mass hits the floor. This will start to wind the un-tensioned string around the drum, causing a big mess. It may create errors in results as well as while the mass is on the floor the disk is not accelerating and moment of inertia cannot be analyzed.
Next attached the first aluminum disk, on one side it has a red thumbscrew and it has square slot on the other. Place the disk on top of the drum, and screw it tight. 
Place a weight in the stand, and carefully spin the disk. As the string begins to wind guide it with a finger to ensure in coils around the center drum. If it coils around a drum of different radius it will change the applied torque and therefore change experiment measurements for angular acceleration. 
Configure the force sensor in Data Studio by selecting it from the digital sensors list. Select for the sensor to record angular velocity (NOT ACCELRATION), and drag the input onto a V-T graph. Complete a test run. By analyzing the V-T graph look for as large a section as possible where there is a straight line. Configure the sensor to only start and stop recording data for this section, in our experiment this was between 100-3700deg/s.
After completing the setup, 9 tests should be conducted. Three each with the mass being increased by one unit (in the case of our experiment this was adding additional washers).
To test moment of inertia for a cylindrical object, place the steel ring on top of the aluminum disk ensuring it aligns using the pins on its base. 9 tests should be conducted, the same as with the aluminum disk. 
Part 2:
To analyze conservation of angular momentum, a new disk will be placed directly on the sensor shaft as, the equipment form part 1 is no longer required. The second disk is secured to the sensor via a small hex screw which threads into the sensors shaft. This can be done using the screwdriver provided. A short piece of tape should be placed on the disk to ensure the mass holds its position on the disk while the system rotates. Any deviation will create erroneous results when analyzing the parallel axis theorem.
In each trial an experimenter will spin up the disk providing it with some initial velocity, then while recording data a solid or cylindrical mass will be dropped on top of this disk. The change in mass will mean that for the system to maintain constant angular momentum the whole system will need to slow to maintain. This sharp drop in angular velocity will be recorded by the sensor, and displayed on the graph.
It is important to practice dropping the masses several times from short heights, this protects the equipment and helps provide more accurate results. If the masses are offset from the concentric circles engraved on the disk, this should be recorded as accurately as possible. Deviation on a few runs is important as they can be used to examine the parallel axis theorem. A good way to do this is to mark the position of the mass on the disk with a pencil. After removing the mass, it is possible to hold the Vernier up to the gap and judge with considerable accuracy the offset of the mass. 
This part of the experiment is conducted in three trials, one with each type of mass, aluminum ring, brass ring and the solid brass ring. For each mass conduct three runs, this helps decrease statistical uncertainty in final results. 
